1)I had the exam this morning, here is how it went:
He started by asking how we arrive at the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian from the minimal coupling Hamiltonian. He asked about the LWA, then we moved on to the eigenstates of JC. He then asked me about the Purcell regime (what are the relevant parameters), how the spectrum of JC changes in the Purcell regime (no clue), and how it affects the correlation function. He kept asking questions related to the Purcell regime but I had no idea so he changed the topic. 
We moved on to ion trapping, why in that case the dipole approximation is still valid and what are the relevant physical quantities. 
He also asked me a few questions about Rabi oscillations and collapse and revival.

2)He asked me to talk about JC and Tavis-Cummings, and the differences between them. He wanted to know how we can differentiate whether there is one or many atoms in the cavity by analyzing the leakage (g2 is apparently not the answer he was looking for, I got stuck there for 15min and he didn't wanna move on for some reason, then he revealed the solution but I didn't understand it 🫠). Then he asked about the Purcell regime, he especially wanted to hear the term "large cooperativity". In the end he wanted to know how an two atoms in the dark superpos state can decay and how this depends on the distance between the atoms. I had no clue, then he gave the "hint" that I should consider the wavelength of the e<->g transition which didn't help. He then revealed the answer, which I also didn't understand haha.
For me, he didn't ask any questions about specific cases we had in the lecture (except the first warm-up question about JC vs TC), but always tried to go one step beyond.

3)I also had a similar experience.. was asked about JC and it’s approximations in detail. What is important in JC and why do we consider it. I said about Rabi oscillations … and then went on to collapse and revival. He wanted me to tell him what happens if we increase the photons in the cavity and how it affects the revival and collapse time. 
Also talked a bit about Tavis Cummings. 
And then at the end about dressed states, why we have antibunching and why we don’t have it when we only have a cavity (without emitter). 
He also asked many times why are these things important for someone who is not in the quantum optics domain … I am not sure what he expected for an answer …

4) ALBERTO I was asked about correlation functions, physical intuition about them, and also concerning pure dephasing

5) Lucca

6) I was asked to explain the main states of a cavity in the beginning (Fock state, coherent state, squeezed state). Then he wanted to know how to measure them if we just have the cavity (no emitter, so no correlation or JC spectrum or anything - I'm not sure what he actually wanted me to say, I just talked about a lot of different stuff)
Then we went on to the time evolution of a coherent state (again no emitter) and to cavity optomechanics. How does the time evolution change for an additional quatdratic term (aa+)^2? Where he gave me the term 
In general he tried to help a lot. And was quite patient when I was trying to figure out what he wanted to hear.



REST AUF ZETTEL